# Day 2: Basic FT Components

## FT - FastTags

### Intro
FastTags are the components of FastHTML. 'FastTag' and 'component' are synonymous in this context.
e.g.: Title(), Body(), Main(), Div(), H1(), Ul(), P(), etc.

FT turns Python objects to HTML (py object -> XML -> HTML).

1. Are Python callables, specifically functions, classes, methods of classes, lambda functions, and anything else called with parenthesis that returns a value.
1. Return a sequence of values which has three elements:
    1. The tag to be generated
    1. The content of the tag, which is a tuple of strings/tuples. If a tuple, it is the three-element structure of an ft component
    1. A dictionary of XML attributes and their values
1. FastHTML’s default ft components begin with an uppercase letter. Examples include Title(), Ul(), and Div() Custom components have included things like BlogPost and CityMap.

Follows PascalCase convention for ft components.
There’s a couple of reasons for this:

1. ft components can be made from any callable type, so adhering to any one pattern doesn’t make much sense
1. It makes for easier reading of FastHTML code, as anything that is PascalCase is probably an ft component

>**Note**: Common case conventions
>1. snake_case - PEP8 specification
>1. PascalCase or upper camel case
>1. camelCase or lower camel case

### Tags
FastHTML has over 150 FT components designed to accelerate web development. Most of these mirror HTML tags such as `<div>`, `<p>`,`<a>`, `<title>`, and more.

However, there are some extra tags added:

1. Titled, a combination of the Title() and H1() tags
1. Socials, renders popular social media tags
1. Favicon, render light and dark favicon headers

[source](https://github.com/AnswerDotAI/fasthtml/blob/main/nbs/api/02_xtend.ipynb)

### Namespace
Namespace: `from fasthtml import ft`
Usage: `ft.Title(), ft.Ul(). ft.Li()`

> Note to self: Look at rendering issue (`#|echo = false`) in Attributes section of [Explaining FT Components notebook](https://github.com/AnswerDotAI/fasthtml/blob/main/nbs/explains/explaining_xt_components.ipynb)

### Annottated Example
```python
Label( # <1>
    "Choose an option", 
    Select(
        Option("one", value="1", selected=True), # <2>
        Option("two", value="2", selected=False), # <3>
        Option("three", value=3),  # <4>
        cls="selector",  # <5>
        _id="counter", # <6>            
        **{'@click':"alert('Clicked');"}, # <7>
    ),
    _for="counter",  # <8>
)
```

We set the HTML class using the `cls` argument. We use `cls` here as `class` is a reserved word in Python. During the rendering process this will be converted to the word “class”.

Any named argument passed into an ft component will have the leading underscore stripped away before rendering. Useful for handling reserved words in Python.

On line 10 we have an attribute name that cannot be represented as a python variable. In cases like these, we can use an unpacked dict to represent these values.

The use of _for on line 12 is another demonstration of an argument having the leading underscore stripped during render. We can also use fr as that will be expanded to for

### Custom FT Components
It is possible and sometimes useful to create your own ft components that generate non-standard tags that are not in the FastHTML library. FastHTML supports created and defining those new tags flexibly. Find an example in [Isaac's blog](https://isaac-flath.github.io/website/posts/boots/FasthtmlTutorial.html)

>If you use type hints, we strongly suggest that FT components be treated as the `Any` type.
    >The reason is that FastHTML leverages python’s dynamic features to a great degree. Especially when it comes to FT components, which can evaluate out to be `FT|str|None|tuple` as well as anything that supports the `__ft__`, `__html__`, and `__str__` method. That’s enough of the Python stack that assigning anything but `Any` to be the FT type will prove an exercise in frustation.

### References:

1. [Official docs](https://fastht.ml/docs/explains/explaining_xt_components.html)
